---
toc: true
layout: post
description: 
categories: [units]
title: College Board Pseudo Code
---
## Learning College Board Pseudo Code
Thousands of different programming languages have been created, and more are being created every year.  College Board has designed a pseudo code, non operational programming language, to highlight concepts that it wants every student to learn.  This pseudo code consists of instructions that are common for many languages.  Such instructions are translated into machine code for computers to execute.

### Comparison of CB Pseudo Code to Python with descriptions
Command Vocabulary | Pseudo code         | Python                 | Purpose
Output       | DISPLAY(expression) | print(expression, end=" ") | Displays the value of expression, followed by a space.
Input        | a ← INPUT()         | a = input(prompt)      | Accepts a value from the user and returns it to the variable a.
Assignment   |	a ← expression	   | a = expression         | Evaluates expression and assigns the result to the variable a.
Selection    | IF (expression)     | if expression:         | Run commands in the code block associated with the selection
Iteration n times     |	REPEAT n TIMES      | for i in range(n): | Repeat commands in the code block associated withe the iteration n times
Iteration expression  | REPEAT UNTIL (expression) |	while expression: |  Repeat commands in the code block associated withe the iteration while expression is true
List Assignment | list ← [expression1, expression2, expression3] | list = [expression1, expression2, expression3] | Assigns 3 values to list, value can be literal or expressions
First index in List     |	list[1] | list[0] | Access the 1st element in the list[].  FYI, most programming languages start a zero.
Last index in List    | list[LENGTH(list)] | list[len(list) - 1] | Access the last element in the list[].  If you start at zero, last element is length - 1.
Define Procedure      | PROCEDURE name (parameter) | def name(parameter): |  Create a procedure containing a sequence of programming instructions.
Expression equals     |	a = b	| a == b  | Evaluate if assigned value of a equals assigned value of b
Expression not equals |	a ≠ b	| a != b  | Evaluate if assigned value of a is NOT equal to assigned value of b


### Pseudo IF Code Block
```
a ← 1
b ← 1
IF (a = b) {
   DISPLAY("A equals B")
}
```

### Python IF Code Block 
```python
a = 1
b = 1
if (a == b):
    print("A equals B")
```

{ <block of statements> }
### Suggestions for students
It is very important that you become fluent in "Command Vocabulary" and "Purpose" of the Pseudo Code versus Python comparison.  During the year you will look at JavaScript which has same Command Vocabulary and Purpose.  Others may take Java, you will see the same ideas again.  
- Start building Vocabulary and Purpose by Code/Code/Coding
- Supplement you Code with comments and outputs using Markdown and Jupyter notebooks.  This style allows you to code explore and learn as you go.
- Use CB Pseudo code as part of your definitions as you build your notebooks.

## Hacks
- Build your own Notebook
- Add a link in your Notebook to College Board Pseudo Code reference