---
toc: true
layout: post
description: 
categories: [tri1]
title: Innovation Sprint - Technologies in Java Web Apps

---

# Introduction to Python - Week 1
Introduction to Python sprint is a time to learn and obtain basic skills needed to Code a little bit.  
- Learning basics of Python
- Capturing notes and coding while building a Fastpages/GitHub pages and a yearlong individual notebook
- Establish positive PBL habits: a focused mindset in the classroom, establishing work habits to achieve success.

## Daily Plans Week 1
Discuss some concepts in [Big Idea 3 Algorithms and Programming](https://apclassroom.collegeboard.org/103/home?unit=3).  Always Code/Code/Code in classroom when schedule allows!  Practice Pair Programming Habit of 30 minutes/30 minutes/1 commit each and start of "Personal Computer Plan".
- Monday: "Live Review" with pairs: show personal progress in setting up tools with Teacher.
- Tuesday: Test Prep - Discuss Anatomy of Python.  
- Wednesday: Tech Talk - Fastpages, Jupyter Notebooks, Markdown	: Tour of working on _posts and _notebooks.
- Thursday: Tech Talk - Focus and Habits, video frm Yale
- Friday: Code/Code/Code - Pair Programming in Jupyter Notebook.  

# Points and Tangibles
- Points (see canvas), live reviews will be scheduled in class on Monday of next week.  Everything will be crossover graded using a "Review Ticket"
    - Individual/Pair
        - _posts: "Personal Computer Plan"
        - _posts: "Focus and Habits" video from Yale
        - _notebooks: "Anatomy of Python"
        - _posts: "Review Ticket"